
Chocolate Doom

Chocolate Doom is a Doom source port which aims to behave as closely
as possible to the original DOS Doom executables.

Chocolate Doom aims to:

 * Be compatible with DOS Doom demos
 * Be compatible with DOS Doom configuration files
 * Be compatible with DOS Doom savegames
 * Be compatible with DOS Doom bugs
 * Provide the same "feel" as DOS Doom (display and input should behave
   the same)
 * As far as possible, provde all the same features that are available
   using the DOS version.

== Configuration File ==

Chocolate Doom is compatible with the DOS Doom configuration file
(normally named 'default.cfg').  Existing configuration files for
DOS Doom should therefore simply work out of the box.  However,
Chocolate Doom also provides some extra settings.  These are stored
in a separate file named 'chocolate-doom.cfg'.

Options:

  fullscreen           If 1, the game runs fullscreen.

  grabmouse            If 1, the mouse pointer is "grabbed" during play.  
                       This is only applicable if playing in windowed mode 
                       (not fullscreen)

  mouse_acceleration   Controls the acceleration applied to the mouse.  
                       Acceleration has the effect of turning a greater 
                       amount when the mouse is moved quickly. When this has 
                       a value of 1.0, there is no acceleration. Larger values 
                       apply a greater acceleration.

  novert               Emulates the behavior of the DOS program "novert".  
                       If this is 1, vertical mouse movement is ignored, 
                       and the player will not move forward and backward 
                       when the mouse is moved.

  screenmultiply       If this has the value 1, the game runs in a 320x200 
                       window.  If this has the value 2, this is doubled up 
                       to a 640x400 window.

== Command-line options ==

In addition to the normal Doom command-line options, a number of extra
options are supported.

  -1                   Sets screenmultiply to 1 (see above)

  -2                   Sets screenmultiply to 2 (see above), doubling up
                       the screen by 2x.

  -extraconfig <file>  Specifies a configuration file to use for 
                       Chocolate Doom-specific settings (the default
                       is 'chocolate-doom.cfg')

  -fullscreen          Runs the game fullscreen. 

  -nofullscreen        Runs the game in a window,
  -window

  -gameversion <ver>   Emulates a specific release of Doom 1.9.  Valid
                       values are "1.9", "ultimate" and "final".

  -grabmouse           Grabs the mouse during play (see above)

  -nograbmouse         Does not grab the mouse during play (see above)

  -iwad <file>         Specifies an IWAD file to use.

  -longtics            When recording demos, records in the the modified
                       "Doom v1.91" format to avoid losing turning
                       resolution.

  -merge <file>        Loads a PWAD but simulates merging it into the main
                       IWAD (see below)

  -novert              Turns on novert (see above)

  -nonovert            Turns off novert (see above)

== Playing TCs ==

With Vanilla Doom there is no way to include sprites in PWAD files.  
Chocolate Doom's '-file' command line option behaves exactly the
same as Vanilla Doom, and trying to play TCs by adding the WAD files
using '-file' will not work.

Many Total Conversions (TCs) are distributed as a PWAD file which must
be merged into the main IWAD.  Typically a copy of DEUSF.EXE is
included which performs this merge.  Chocolate Doom includes a new
option, '-merge', which will simulate this merge.  Essentially, the 
WAD directory is merged in memory, removing the need to modify the 
IWAD on disk.

To play TCs using Chocolate Doom, run like this:

  chocolate-doom -merge thetc.wad

Here are some examples:

  chocolate-doom -merge batman.wad -deh batman.deh      (Batman Doom)
  chocolate-doom -merge aoddoom1.wad -deh aoddoom1.deh  (Army of Darkness Doom)

== Other information ==

 * Chocolate Doom is not perfect.  See the BUGS file for a list of 
   known issues,
 * Chocolate Doom is under the GNU GPL.  See the COPYING file for more 
   information.
 * Chocolate Doom is currently a beta version.  Not all planned features 
   have been implemented yet.  Please send feedback and bug reports to 
   fraggle@alkali.org.  Thanks!

